
# referrences

getskeleton.com

http://www.hongkiat.com/blog/bootstrap-alternatives/





skeleton
ˈskɛlɪt(ə)n/

an internal or external framework of bone, cartilage, or other rigid material
supporting or containing the body of an animal or plant.

    "the human skeleton"

used in reference to a very thin or emaciated person or animal.

    "she was no more than a skeleton at the end"

synonyms:synonyms skin and bone, stick, scrag; More

    "she was no more than a skeleton at the end"

the remaining part of something after its life or usefulness is gone.

    "the chapel was stripped to a skeleton of its former self"

2.  the supporting framework, basic structure, or essential part of something.


# Alternatives

1. Skeleton

Skeleton has finally gotten a facelift. It’s a total revamp from
the ground up, and yet it is still as light as it used to be. The
new Skeleton grid system now adopts mobile-first philosphy, which
ensures that the layout takes center stage regardless of how small
the device screen is.

All components that were included in the earlier version –
buttons, forms and input elements – are still present but basic
typography styles are now set in rem unit.

2. CardinalCSS

CardinalCSS is a CSS framework built with a focus on performance,
readability and most importantly maintainability. CardinalCSS
adopts some modern approaches such as mobile-first for shaping up
the grid; and CSS Box Model that allows you to easily determine
element width and height.

CardinalCSS also comes with a handful of helper classes that allow
you to quickly apply styles upon an element, for example, the
drop-cap which applies the drop-cap effect for the first character
in the paragraph.

3. ConciseCSS

ConciseCSS is a CSS framework – without the bloat. It is a lean
framework built on top of Sass, LESS, and Stylus which paves its
golden path to CSS maintainability. But, if you prefer plain
simple vanilla CSS, you can have that as well.

Similarly, ConciseCSS also comes with base styles for essential
elements such as the headings, paragraphs, tables, forms, and a
set of helpers class to create button UI.

4. PowertoCSS

PowertoCSS is lightweight and a solid frontend framework. Class
names that are used to build the grid and apply styles are simple
and easy to remember e.g. .button. You can also add your own
theme. Head over to their StarterKit to get started.

5. Furtive

Furtive is a mobile-first CSS framework built around the
cutting-edge web standards like the use of Flexbox for the grid
and rem unit for sizing elements (including font size). Furtive
retains a small CSS footprint by not supporting older browsers
(*cough* Internet Explorer) since they require some CSS hacking.
Hence Furtive is a perfect framework if you are designing a
website for the future.

6. BassCSS

BassCSS offers a lightweight set of base element styles,
utilities, layout and color styles, in modular form for buildilng
a responsive web application. The SCSS files are included to
customize the style easily. You can play with typography, white
space, breakpoints, and UI elements.

7. Mueller

Mueller is a modular responsive grid system built on top of Sass
and Compass. With Mueller, you can build the grid either by adding
classes straight to the HTML elements, or if you prefer your HTML
elements to be neat and clean, using the grid() function. Mueller
grid can be used in tandem with the Masonry Javascript library to
create a Pinterest-like layout.

8. Tuktuk

Tuktuk is a very unique name for a framework. Compared to Bootstrap or Foundation, Tuktuk is much lighter as it only comes with just the proper amount of components to build a presentable website including for the grid system, basic styling for typography, tables, and a couple of UI like navbar and modals.

9. Base

Base is built on top of LESS and Sass, and it includes only the most essential of components to build websites: the grid and the basic styling of HTML elements. Base does not come with Javascript components, yet it provides great browser compatibility so much so that it works even with IE7.

10. Toast

The last of our list is Toast. Through the SCSS stylesheet is
included in the package, Toast allows you to easily configure the
grid class names, the gutter, and even the column-base. For
example, if you want the grid to be a 9-base column instead of 12,
you can do that. Toast is a minimal CSS framework with very
flexible configurations catered to meet your requirements.


<!--
    vim: set ft=markdown tw=66:
-->
